README.md, before:

# PROJECT 3

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

In this section, you will include a few paragraphs providing an overview of your project.
Essentially, this part is your "sales pitch".

At this stage, you should have a name for your project so use it!
Don't introduce the project as a "portfolio project" for the diploma.

In this section, describe what the project hopes to accomplish, who it is intended to target, and how it will be useful to the target audience.

Consider adding a mockup image using the "Am I Responsive" website.
Here's your deployed site as an example:
https://ui.dev/amiresponsive?url=https://red-dwarf.herokuapp.com

Screenshots for the README and testing should not be inside of `assets/` or `static/` image folders.
(reminder: `assets/` and `static/` are for files used on the live site, not documentation)
Consider adding a new folder called `documentation`, and add the amiresponsive screenshot inside of that folder.
To add the image into your README, use this format:
(assuming you have a new folder called `documentation` with an image called "mockup.png")

![screenshot](documentation/mockup.png)

Note: Markdown files (.md) should not contain HTML elements like `img`, `br`, `div`, `a`, etc, only Markdown formatting.
Find out more about using Markdown elements here:
https://pandao.github.io/editor.md/en.html

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

## UX

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

In this section, you will briefly explain your design processes.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

## Features

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

In this section, you should go over the different parts of your project,
and describe each in a sentence or so.

You will need to explain what value each of the features provides for the user,
focusing on who this website is for, what it is that they want to achieve,
and how your project is the best way to help them achieve these things.

For some/all of your features, you may choose to reference the specific project files that implement them.

IMPORTANT: Remember to always include a screenshot of each individual feature!

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

### Existing Features

- **Title for feature #1**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature01.png)

- **Title for feature #2**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature02.png)

- **Title for feature #3**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Repeat as necessary for as many features as your site contains.

Hint: the more, the merrier!

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

### Future Features

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Do you have additional ideas that you'd like to include on your project in the future?
Fantastic! List them here!
It's always great to have plans for future improvements!
Consider adding any helpful links or notes to help remind you in the future, if you revisit the project in a couple years.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

- Title for future feature #1
    - Any additional notes about this feature.
- Title for future feature #2
    - Any additional notes about this feature.
- Title for future feature #3
    - Any additional notes about this feature.

## Tools & Technologies Used

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

In this section, you should explain the various tools and technologies used to develop the project.
Make sure to put a link (where applicable) to the source, and explain what each was used for.
Some examples have been provided, but this is just a sample only, your project might've used others.
Feel free to delete any unused items below as necessary.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML) used for the main site content.
- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS) used for the main site design and layout.
- [CSS :root variables](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp) used for reusable styles throughout the site.
- [CSS Flexbox](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_flexbox.asp) used for an enhanced responsive layout.
- [CSS Grid](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_grid.asp) used for an enhanced responsive layout.
- [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com) used for user interaction on the site.
- [Python](https://www.python.org) used as the back-end programming language.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com) used for version control. (`git add`, `git commit`, `git push`)
- [GitHub](https://github.com) used for secure online code storage.
- [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com) used for hosting the deployed front-end site.
- [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io) used as a cloud-based IDE for development.
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com) used as the front-end CSS framework for modern responsiveness and pre-built components.
- [Materialize](https://materializecss.com) used as the front-end CSS framework for modern responsiveness and pre-built components.
- [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com) used as the Python framework for the site.
- [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com) used as the Python framework for the site.
- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com) used as the non-relational database management with Flask.
- [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org) used as the relational database management with Flask.
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) used as the relational database management.
- [ElephantSQL](https://www.elephantsql.com) used as the Postgres database.
- [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com) used for hosting the deployed back-end site.
- [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com) used for online static file storage.
- [Stripe](https://stripe.com) used for online secure payments of ecommerce products/services.
- [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3) used for online static file storage.

## Data Model

### Flowchart

To follow best practice, a flowchart was created for the app's logic,
and mapped out before coding began using a free version of
[Lucidchart](https://www.lucidchart.com/pages/ER-diagram-symbols-and-meaning) and/or [Draw.io](https://www.draw.io).

Below is the flowchart of the main process of this Python program. It shows the entire cycle of the program.

![screenshot](documentation/flowchart.png)

### Classes & Functions

The program uses classes as a blueprint for the project's objects (OOP). This allows for the object to be reusable.

```python
class Person:
    """ Insert docstring comments here """
    def __init__(self, name, age, health, inventory):
        self.name = name
        self.age = age
        self.health = health
        self.inventory = inventory
```

The primary functions used on this application are:

- `get_sales_data()`
    - Get sales figures input from the user.
- `validate_data()`
    - Converts all string values into integers.
- `update_worksheet()`
    - Update the relevant worksheet with the data provided.
- `calculate_surplus_data()`
    - Compare sales with stock and calculate the surplus for each item type.
- `get_last_5_entries_sales()`
    - Collects columns of data from sales worksheet.
- `calculate_stock_data()`
    -  Calculate the average stock for each item type, adding 10%.
- `main()`
    - Run all program functions.

### Imports

I've used the following Python packages and/or external imported packages.

- `gspread`: used with the Google Sheets API
- `google.oauth2.service_account`: used for the Google Sheets API credentials
- `time`: used for adding time delays
- `os`: used for adding a `clear()` function
- `colorama`: used for including color in the terminal
- `random`: used to get a random choice from a list

## Testing

For all testing, please refer to the [TESTING.md](TESTING.md) file.

## Deployment

Code Institute has provided a [template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/python-essentials-template) to display the terminal view of this backend application in a modern web browser.
This is to improve the accessibility of the project to others.

The live deployed application can be found deployed on [Heroku](https://red-dwarf.herokuapp.com).

### Heroku Deployment

This project uses [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com), a platform as a service (PaaS) that enables developers to build, run, and operate applications entirely in the cloud.

Deployment steps are as follows, after account setup:

- Select **New** in the top-right corner of your Heroku Dashboard, and select **Create new app** from the dropdown menu.
- Your app name must be unique, and then choose a region closest to you (EU or USA), and finally, select **Create App**.
- From the new app **Settings**, click **Reveal Config Vars**, and set the value of KEY to `PORT`, and the value to `8000` then select *add*.
- If using any confidential credentials, such as CREDS.JSON, then these should be pasted in the Config Variables as well.
- Further down, to support dependencies, select **Add Buildpack**.
- The order of the buildpacks is important, select `Python` first, then `Node.js` second. (if they are not in this order, you can drag them to rearrange them)

Heroku needs two additional files in order to deploy properly.
- requirements.txt
- Procfile

You can install this project's **requirements** (where applicable) using:
- `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

If you have your own packages that have been installed, then the requirements file needs updated using:
- `pip3 freeze --local > requirements.txt`

The **Procfile** can be created with the following command:
- `echo web: node index.js > Procfile`

For Heroku deployment, follow these steps to connect your own GitHub repository to the newly created app:

Either:
- Select **Automatic Deployment** from the Heroku app.

Or:
- In the Terminal/CLI, connect to Heroku using this command: `heroku login -i`
- Set the remote for Heroku: `heroku git:remote -a app_name` (replace *app_name* with your app name)
- After performing the standard Git `add`, `commit`, and `push` to GitHub, you can now type:
	- `git push heroku main`

The frontend terminal should now be connected and deployed to Heroku!

### Local Deployment

This project can be cloned or forked in order to make a local copy on your own system.

For either method, you will need to install any applicable packages found within the *requirements.txt* file.
- `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`.

If using any confidential credentials, such as `CREDS.json` or `env.py` data, these will need to be manually added to your own newly created project as well.

#### Cloning

You can clone the repository by following these steps:

1. Go to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Pimmz/Project-3) 
2. Locate the Code button above the list of files and click it 
3. Select if you prefer to clone using HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub CLI and click the copy button to copy the URL to your clipboard
4. Open Git Bash or Terminal
5. Change the current working directory to the one where you want the cloned directory
6. In your IDE Terminal, type the following command to clone my repository:
	- `git clone https://github.com/Pimmz/Project-3.git`
7. Press Enter to create your local clone.

Alternatively, if using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/Pimmz/Project-3)

Please note that in order to directly open the project in Gitpod, you need to have the browser extension installed.
A tutorial on how to do that can be found [here](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/user-settings/browser-extension).

#### Forking

By forking the GitHub Repository, we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original owner's repository.
You can fork this repository by using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Pimmz/Project-3)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. Once clicked, you should now have a copy of the original repository in your own GitHub account!

### Local VS Deployment

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Use this space to discuss any differences between the local version you've developed, and the live deployment site on Heroku.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

## Credits

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

In this section you need to reference where you got your content, media, and extra help from.
It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials,
however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

### Content

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Use this space to provide attribution links to any borrowed code snippets, elements, or resources.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

Ideally, you should provide an actual link to every resource used, not just a generic link to the main site!

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

| Source | Location | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Markdown Builder](https://traveltimn.github.io/markdown-builder) | README and TESTING | tool to help generate the Markdown files |
| [Chris Beams](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit) | version control | "How to Write a Git Commit Message" |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_topnav_responsive.asp) | entire site | responsive HTML/CSS/JS navbar |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_modals.asp) | contact page | interactive pop-up (modal) |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp) | entire site | how to use CSS :root variables |
| [Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [Grid Garden](https://cssgridgarden.com) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/2450976) | quiz page | Fisher-Yates/Knuth shuffle in JS |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YL1F4dCUlLc) | leaderboard | using `localStorage()` in JS for high scores |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u51Zjlnui4Y) | PP3 terminal | tutorial for adding color to the Python terminal |
| [strftime](https://strftime.org) | CRUD functionality | helpful tool to format date/time from string |
| [WhiteNoise](http://whitenoise.evans.io) | entire site | hosting static files on Heroku temporarily |

### Media

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Use this space to provide attribution links to any images, videos, or audio files borrowed from online.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

If you're the owner (or a close acquaintance) of all media files, then make sure to specify this.
Let the assessors know that you have explicit rights to use the media files within your project.

Ideally, you should provide an actual link to every media file used, not just a generic link to the main site!
The list below is by no means exhaustive. Within the Code Institute Slack community, you can find more "free media" links
by sending yourself the following command: `!freemedia`.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

| Source | Location | Type | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com) | entire site | image | favicon on all pages |
| [Lorem Picsum](https://picsum.photos) | home page | image | hero image background |
| [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com) | product page | image | sample of fake products |
| [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com) | gallery page | image | group of photos for gallery |
| [Wallhere](https://wallhere.com) | footer | image | background wallpaper image in the footer |
| [This Person Does Not Exist](https://thispersondoesnotexist.com) | testimonials | image | headshots of fake testimonial images |
| [Audio Micro](https://www.audiomicro.com/free-sound-effects) | game page | audio | free audio files to generate the game sounds |
| [Videvo](https://www.videvo.net/) | home page | video | background video on the hero section |
| [TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com) | entire site | image | tool for image compression |

### Acknowledgements

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Use this space to provide attribution to any supports that helped, encouraged, or supported you throughout the development stages of this project.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

- I would like to thank my Code Institute mentor, [Tim Nelson](https://github.com/TravelTimN) for their support throughout the development of this project.
- I would like to thank the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net) tutor team for their assistance with troubleshooting and debugging some project issues.
- I would like to thank the [Code Institute Slack community](https://code-institute-room.slack.com) for the moral support; it kept me going during periods of self doubt and imposter syndrome.
- I would like to thank my partner (John/Jane), for believing in me, and allowing me to make this transition into software development.
- I would like to thank my employer, for supporting me in my career development change towards becoming a software developer.

Commit message:

Design process added to the readme file

README.md, after:

# Back to Red Dwarf

Welcome to Back to Red Dwarf. The texted based adventure game. I created the game because I have very fond memories of playing similiar games in my youth. I used to get lost in the worlds that had been created. So it was great fun to able to make my own. I decided on Back to Red Dwarf due to being a big fan of the show. Plus I enjoy humour in my adventure games. So it seemed only fitting that I marry the Red Dwarf story to the texted based adventure game. Back to Red Dwarf has been designed so anyone can enjoy this simple but enjoyable game, so they to can enjoy moments as I did as a child.
 
![screenshot](documentation/ami.png)

https://ui.dev/amiresponsive?url=https://red-dwarf.herokuapp.com


## Design Process (UX)
When I started the design of Back to Red Dwarf I wanted to ensure the site was Useful, Useable and Valuable so that it makes the user experience immersive and enjoyable. To do this I looked at the five key fundamentals;

Strategy - So the user can enjoy this simple, enjoyable, texted based game while immersing themselves in a fictional scenario.

## Scope - Based on the information from the strategy, the features included emotive images, which offered key information about the quote the famous person said. A timer so the user can see what their best was, so they can try to beat it. I also included a section so they can see how many guesses they made so they can not only complete the game as fast as possible but also do it in the least amount of moves. A how-to-play feature was also included so the user can see how to play the game if they are not familiar with this particular game. The option to reset the game was also included so they can put the game back to the start at any point. Update: I have decided to include a leaderboard in the design so that it creates more of a challenge for the user.

Structure - This was designed to lead the user on a journey through afew of my favorite episodes of Red Dwarf. The key part being that they were in control of there journey by selecting to go one way or the other. A lowercase converter was added to ensure that if the user did put upppercase in the input field it would not effect the game. However I have also added code to help show the user the correct text required if they did put any other word in the input field

Skeleton - As before this was designed to lead the user on a journey through afew of my favorite episodes of Red Dwarf. This dictated that it would be one page, laid out simply. So that it can be used quickly and efficiently while delivering the most amount of fun and gaining a small amount of knowledge as well.

Surface - I wanted the look of Famous Quote Matcher to be informative, clear, and concise, with consistent typography and corresponding colours to help them stand out, to easily navigate with emotive pictures that helped to bring an element of fun which I believe we all need on a daily basis.

Then I sat down and roughly sketched out onto paper what the screens would look like on a mobile, tablet and desktop, This then gave me the basis to start creating Famous Quote Matcher in Codeanywhere.

## Features

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

In this section, you should go over the different parts of your project,
and describe each in a sentence or so.

You will need to explain what value each of the features provides for the user,
focusing on who this website is for, what it is that they want to achieve,
and how your project is the best way to help them achieve these things.

For some/all of your features, you may choose to reference the specific project files that implement them.

IMPORTANT: Remember to always include a screenshot of each individual feature!

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

### Existing Features

- **Title for feature #1**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature01.png)

- **Title for feature #2**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature02.png)

- **Title for feature #3**

    - Details about this particular feature, including the value to the site, and benefit for the user. Be as detailed as possible!

![screenshot](documentation/feature03.png)

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Repeat as necessary for as many features as your site contains.

Hint: the more, the merrier!

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

### Future Features

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Do you have additional ideas that you'd like to include on your project in the future?
Fantastic! List them here!
It's always great to have plans for future improvements!
Consider adding any helpful links or notes to help remind you in the future, if you revisit the project in a couple years.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

- Title for future feature #1
    - Any additional notes about this feature.
- Title for future feature #2
    - Any additional notes about this feature.
- Title for future feature #3
    - Any additional notes about this feature.

## Tools & Technologies Used

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

In this section, you should explain the various tools and technologies used to develop the project.
Make sure to put a link (where applicable) to the source, and explain what each was used for.
Some examples have been provided, but this is just a sample only, your project might've used others.
Feel free to delete any unused items below as necessary.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML) used for the main site content.
- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS) used for the main site design and layout.
- [CSS :root variables](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp) used for reusable styles throughout the site.
- [CSS Flexbox](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_flexbox.asp) used for an enhanced responsive layout.
- [CSS Grid](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_grid.asp) used for an enhanced responsive layout.
- [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com) used for user interaction on the site.
- [Python](https://www.python.org) used as the back-end programming language.
- [Git](https://git-scm.com) used for version control. (`git add`, `git commit`, `git push`)
- [GitHub](https://github.com) used for secure online code storage.
- [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com) used for hosting the deployed front-end site.
- [Gitpod](https://gitpod.io) used as a cloud-based IDE for development.
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com) used as the front-end CSS framework for modern responsiveness and pre-built components.
- [Materialize](https://materializecss.com) used as the front-end CSS framework for modern responsiveness and pre-built components.
- [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com) used as the Python framework for the site.
- [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com) used as the Python framework for the site.
- [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com) used as the non-relational database management with Flask.
- [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org) used as the relational database management with Flask.
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) used as the relational database management.
- [ElephantSQL](https://www.elephantsql.com) used as the Postgres database.
- [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com) used for hosting the deployed back-end site.
- [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com) used for online static file storage.
- [Stripe](https://stripe.com) used for online secure payments of ecommerce products/services.
- [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3) used for online static file storage.

## Data Model

### Flowchart

To follow best practice, a flowchart was created for the app's logic,
and mapped out before coding began using a free version of
[Lucidchart](https://www.lucidchart.com/pages/ER-diagram-symbols-and-meaning) and/or [Draw.io](https://www.draw.io).

Below is the flowchart of the main process of this Python program. It shows the entire cycle of the program.

![screenshot](documentation/flowchart.png)

### Classes & Functions

The program uses classes as a blueprint for the project's objects (OOP). This allows for the object to be reusable.

```python
class Person:
    """ Insert docstring comments here """
    def __init__(self, name, age, health, inventory):
        self.name = name
        self.age = age
        self.health = health
        self.inventory = inventory
```

The primary functions used on this application are:

- `get_sales_data()`
    - Get sales figures input from the user.
- `validate_data()`
    - Converts all string values into integers.
- `update_worksheet()`
    - Update the relevant worksheet with the data provided.
- `calculate_surplus_data()`
    - Compare sales with stock and calculate the surplus for each item type.
- `get_last_5_entries_sales()`
    - Collects columns of data from sales worksheet.
- `calculate_stock_data()`
    -  Calculate the average stock for each item type, adding 10%.
- `main()`
    - Run all program functions.

### Imports

I've used the following Python packages and/or external imported packages.

- `gspread`: used with the Google Sheets API
- `google.oauth2.service_account`: used for the Google Sheets API credentials
- `time`: used for adding time delays
- `os`: used for adding a `clear()` function
- `colorama`: used for including color in the terminal
- `random`: used to get a random choice from a list

## Testing

For all testing, please refer to the [TESTING.md](TESTING.md) file.

## Deployment

Code Institute has provided a [template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/python-essentials-template) to display the terminal view of this backend application in a modern web browser.
This is to improve the accessibility of the project to others.

The live deployed application can be found deployed on [Heroku](https://red-dwarf.herokuapp.com).

### Heroku Deployment

This project uses [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com), a platform as a service (PaaS) that enables developers to build, run, and operate applications entirely in the cloud.

Deployment steps are as follows, after account setup:

- Select **New** in the top-right corner of your Heroku Dashboard, and select **Create new app** from the dropdown menu.
- Your app name must be unique, and then choose a region closest to you (EU or USA), and finally, select **Create App**.
- From the new app **Settings**, click **Reveal Config Vars**, and set the value of KEY to `PORT`, and the value to `8000` then select *add*.
- If using any confidential credentials, such as CREDS.JSON, then these should be pasted in the Config Variables as well.
- Further down, to support dependencies, select **Add Buildpack**.
- The order of the buildpacks is important, select `Python` first, then `Node.js` second. (if they are not in this order, you can drag them to rearrange them)

Heroku needs two additional files in order to deploy properly.
- requirements.txt
- Procfile

You can install this project's **requirements** (where applicable) using:
- `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

If you have your own packages that have been installed, then the requirements file needs updated using:
- `pip3 freeze --local > requirements.txt`

The **Procfile** can be created with the following command:
- `echo web: node index.js > Procfile`

For Heroku deployment, follow these steps to connect your own GitHub repository to the newly created app:

Either:
- Select **Automatic Deployment** from the Heroku app.

Or:
- In the Terminal/CLI, connect to Heroku using this command: `heroku login -i`
- Set the remote for Heroku: `heroku git:remote -a app_name` (replace *app_name* with your app name)
- After performing the standard Git `add`, `commit`, and `push` to GitHub, you can now type:
	- `git push heroku main`

The frontend terminal should now be connected and deployed to Heroku!

### Local Deployment

This project can be cloned or forked in order to make a local copy on your own system.

For either method, you will need to install any applicable packages found within the *requirements.txt* file.
- `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`.

If using any confidential credentials, such as `CREDS.json` or `env.py` data, these will need to be manually added to your own newly created project as well.

#### Cloning

You can clone the repository by following these steps:

1. Go to the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Pimmz/Project-3) 
2. Locate the Code button above the list of files and click it 
3. Select if you prefer to clone using HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub CLI and click the copy button to copy the URL to your clipboard
4. Open Git Bash or Terminal
5. Change the current working directory to the one where you want the cloned directory
6. In your IDE Terminal, type the following command to clone my repository:
	- `git clone https://github.com/Pimmz/Project-3.git`
7. Press Enter to create your local clone.

Alternatively, if using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/Pimmz/Project-3)

Please note that in order to directly open the project in Gitpod, you need to have the browser extension installed.
A tutorial on how to do that can be found [here](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/user-settings/browser-extension).

#### Forking

By forking the GitHub Repository, we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original owner's repository.
You can fork this repository by using the following steps:

1. Log in to GitHub and locate the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Pimmz/Project-3)
2. At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
3. Once clicked, you should now have a copy of the original repository in your own GitHub account!

### Local VS Deployment

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Use this space to discuss any differences between the local version you've developed, and the live deployment site on Heroku.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

## Credits

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

In this section you need to reference where you got your content, media, and extra help from.
It is common practice to use code from other repositories and tutorials,
however, it is important to be very specific about these sources to avoid plagiarism.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

### Content

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Use this space to provide attribution links to any borrowed code snippets, elements, or resources.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

Ideally, you should provide an actual link to every resource used, not just a generic link to the main site!

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

| Source | Location | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Markdown Builder](https://traveltimn.github.io/markdown-builder) | README and TESTING | tool to help generate the Markdown files |
| [Chris Beams](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit) | version control | "How to Write a Git Commit Message" |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_topnav_responsive.asp) | entire site | responsive HTML/CSS/JS navbar |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_modals.asp) | contact page | interactive pop-up (modal) |
| [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_variables.asp) | entire site | how to use CSS :root variables |
| [Flexbox Froggy](https://flexboxfroggy.com/) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [Grid Garden](https://cssgridgarden.com) | entire site | modern responsive layouts |
| [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/2450976) | quiz page | Fisher-Yates/Knuth shuffle in JS |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YL1F4dCUlLc) | leaderboard | using `localStorage()` in JS for high scores |
| [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u51Zjlnui4Y) | PP3 terminal | tutorial for adding color to the Python terminal |
| [strftime](https://strftime.org) | CRUD functionality | helpful tool to format date/time from string |
| [WhiteNoise](http://whitenoise.evans.io) | entire site | hosting static files on Heroku temporarily |

### Media

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Use this space to provide attribution links to any images, videos, or audio files borrowed from online.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

If you're the owner (or a close acquaintance) of all media files, then make sure to specify this.
Let the assessors know that you have explicit rights to use the media files within your project.

Ideally, you should provide an actual link to every media file used, not just a generic link to the main site!
The list below is by no means exhaustive. Within the Code Institute Slack community, you can find more "free media" links
by sending yourself the following command: `!freemedia`.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

| Source | Location | Type | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com) | entire site | image | favicon on all pages |
| [Lorem Picsum](https://picsum.photos) | home page | image | hero image background |
| [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com) | product page | image | sample of fake products |
| [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com) | gallery page | image | group of photos for gallery |
| [Wallhere](https://wallhere.com) | footer | image | background wallpaper image in the footer |
| [This Person Does Not Exist](https://thispersondoesnotexist.com) | testimonials | image | headshots of fake testimonial images |
| [Audio Micro](https://www.audiomicro.com/free-sound-effects) | game page | audio | free audio files to generate the game sounds |
| [Videvo](https://www.videvo.net/) | home page | video | background video on the hero section |
| [TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com) | entire site | image | tool for image compression |

### Acknowledgements

⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️ START OF NOTES (to be deleted) ⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️⚠️

Use this space to provide attribution to any supports that helped, encouraged, or supported you throughout the development stages of this project.
A few examples have been provided below to give you some ideas.

🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑 END OF NOTES (to be deleted) 🛑🛑🛑🛑🛑

- I would like to thank my Code Institute mentor, [Tim Nelson](https://github.com/TravelTimN) for their support throughout the development of this project.
- I would like to thank the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net) tutor team for their assistance with troubleshooting and debugging some project issues.
- I would like to thank the [Code Institute Slack community](https://code-institute-room.slack.com) for the moral support; it kept me going during periods of self doubt and imposter syndrome.
- I would like to thank my partner (John/Jane), for believing in me, and allowing me to make this transition into software development.
- I would like to thank my employer, for supporting me in my career development change towards becoming a software developer.
